# Calorie Concious App

The objective of this project will be to inform users of the viable options for eating out given their target maximum daily caloric intake. This project should also take into consideration the user's food interest as part of the output recommendations. This project is motivated by the general public’s failure to fully comprehend how high caloric certain items are. A prime example of this is Chipotle’s Chips and Guacamole which has a staggering 720 calories per serving. For reference, a Big Mac from McDonalds is only 540 calories as an entree, as opposed to Chipotle’s Chips and Guacamole which is an appetizer. This project aims to target those of us who enjoy eating out but also care about our health and well-being. As seen from this example there can be items that are surprisingly high caloric while other items that are surprisingly low caloric.
	I believe that there is a need for such an application in the market for a variety of reasons. One of the major reasons is that it is often the case for low-income households that the most affordable meal option is to eat out. However, as seen in the given example, it can be very difficult to determine what the most optimal caloric meal option is. This project helps to fill the void in this knowledge for the general public. There does not appear to be a solution that incorporates both suggesting options to users based upon their desires of what to eat as well as their maximum daily caloric intake target.
	This project should be completed in stages as I’ve already sketched out potential tools to use. For the server node.js can be used. I also plan on learning how to effectively implement react, express.js, and postgresql for framework and database management. I also need to find a way to source food items and calorie data. This data then needs to be identified and stored according to location. Perhaps that is where an external API such as Nutritionix API can help. I can then use Google API for location data. For the purposes of this project, I aim to have it implemented in website form, but given time and completion, mobile implementation could be considered.

TOOLS:
For the server node.js can be used. I also plan on learning how to effectively implement react, express.js, and postgresql for framework and database management. I also need to find a way to source food items and calorie data. This data then needs to be identified and stored according to location. Perhaps that is where an external API such as Nutritionix API can help. I can then use Google API for location data. For the purposes of this project, I aim to have it implemented in website form, but given time and completion, mobile implementation could be considered.


 CISC4900 Project
